{---
title = "Themes";
tags = [ "themes" ];
level = [ "★★" ];
banner = "post-banners/chalk.jpg";
---}

Themes are the main way to customize Styx sites. This post introduce themes basics.

>>>

Themes provides the following:

- Template files
- Static files
- A configuration interface
- An example site

## Using a theme

Using a theme is as easy as downloading it in themes directory and adding it to the `site.nix` themes list. The recommended way to download themes is `git`.

To install the showcase theme just run the following command from the site root:

```
git clone https://github.com/styx-static/styx-theme-showcase.git themes/showcase
```

The example site of a theme is located in the `example` directory.

It is possible to preview the eample site with the styx `preview` command, from the site root:

```
styx preview --target themes/showcase/example
```

## Customizing themes

### Configuration interface

The main way to customize a theme is by using the configuration interface.

Every theme expose some of its functionality to various degrees in the `themes/THEME/theme.conf` file.
`theme.conf` is usually commented or theme documentation is available in another site like `themes/THEME/readme.md`.

Let's say that the theme exposes a `site.title` option to change the site title. To change this option you need edit the `conf.nix` file in the site root in the following manner:

```
{
  theme.site.title = "My Super Site!";
}
```

### Extending themes

To change a template or a file provided by a theme, you do not need to edit it! You can just "extend" the theme.

Exntending a theme consist in creating a new theme with only the files you want to extend.

Let's say you want to extend the showcase theme `layout.nix` template. First we need to create a new theme, the `new theme` command can create a theme folder structure:

```
styx new theme my-showcase --in ./themes
```

Next we just need to add `my-showcase` to the themes list in `site.nix`:

```
  themes = [ "my-showcase" "showcase" ]; 
```

Then copy `layout.nix` in `my-showcase` templates and modify it will be all required to change it.

Extending themes have many benefits:

- No modification to the base themes, so they can be easily updated.
- Multiple themes layers can be created and combined.

