{---
title = "Themes";
tags = [ "themes" ];
level = [ "★★" ];
banner = "/post-banners/chalk.jpg";
---}

Themes are the main way to customize Styx sites. This post introduce themes basics.

>>>

Themes can provide the following:

- Template files
- Static files
- A configuration interface
- An example site
- A function library

## Previewing a theme

Previewing a theme fom the `styx-themes` package set is very easy, the following will launch the preview site for the showcase theme.

```
$ styx preview --in $(nix-build -A styx-themes.showcase '<nixpkgs>')/example
```

## Using a theme

It just require to add the theme to `site.nix` `themes` list to use a theme.  
Themes from the `styx-themes` package or local themes can be used and combined.

```
  /* list the themes to load, paths or packages can be used
     items at the end of the list have higher priority
  */
  themes = [
    styx-themes.generic-templates
    ./themes/my-theme
  ];
```

## Customizing themes

### Configuration interface

The main way to customize a theme is by using the configuration interface.

Every theme expose some of its functionality to various degrees in the `themes/THEME/conf.nix` file.
A theme `conf.nix` is usually commented or theme documentation is available in another file such as `themes/THEME/readme.md`.

Let's say that the theme exposes a `site.title` option to change the site title. To change this option you need edit the *site* `conf.nix` file (in the site root) in the following manner:

```
{
  theme.site.title = "My Site";
}
```

### Extending themes

To change a template or a file provided by a theme, you do not need to edit it! You can just "extend" the theme.

Extending a theme consist in creating a new theme with only the files you want to override from an other theme.

Let's say you want to extend the `generic-templates` theme `templates.partials.head.css-custom` template to load `themes/my-theme/files/css/style.css`.  
First we need to create a new theme, the `new theme` command can create a theme folder structure:

```
$ styx new theme my-theme --in ./themes
```

Next we just need to add `my-theme` to the themes list in `site.nix`:

```
  themes = [
    styx-themes.generic-templates
    ./themes/my-theme
  ]; 
```

Then create a `themes/my-theme/templates/partials/head/css-custom.nix` with the following code to load `themes/my-theme/files/css/style.css`.

```
{ templates, ... }:
args:
templates.tag.link-css { href = templates.url "/css/style.css"; }
```

For more details refer to the [themes](https://styx-static.github.io/styx-site/documentation.html#Themes) chapter of styx documentation.
