{---
title = "Data";
tags = [ "data" ];
level = [ "★★" ];
---}

Styx support multiple data formats. External data is handled in the `data` section `site.nix`. This post introduce how to manage a styx site data.

>>>

## Formats

Styx support data in the following formats:

- Markdown: simple and easy to use markup format.
- AsciiDoc: markup format with many features.
- Nix: data centric format.

## Metadata

Markup files can have provide metadata in the nix format by wrapping it between `{---` and `---}`.

```
  {---
  tags = [ "xxxx" ];
  ---}
```

## Splitting data

Markup files support content introduction and multipages.

Introduction and main contents can be split with the `>>>` introduction separator, the introduction separator can be used only once.

For mutipage content, the page separator `<<<` can be used to make a page break, the page separator can be used multiple times.


## Data in site.nix

The data section is handling site data.

- `loadDir`: loads a folder with all of its files. (not recursive)
- `loadFile`: load a single data file.

Navbar or taxonomy data is also declared in the data section.

A data is just an attribute set with special keys set depending on the format, the filename and the file contents. Check the [documentation](https://styx-static.github.io/styx-site/documentation.html) for details.


## Creating new data

Create a new file in the data folder, the file name should be `YYYY-MM-DD-TITLE.EXT` or `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss-TITLE.EXT` or `TITLE.EXT`, if the date is included, a `date` field will automatically be added to the data attribute set. (`date` can also be included in the file metadata)


