{---
title = "Features";
level = [ "★" ];
---}

Styx is a is a full feature static site generator based on the Nix package manager.

>>>

Styx has the following features:

- Themes
- Clean separation of concerns
- Simple templating engine
- Configuration interface
- Multiple file type support
- Content metadata
- Interactive debugging
- Deployment facilities


## Themes

Themes are the main way to create and customize Styx sites, themes can provide:

- Templates
- Static files
- Configuration interface
- Function library

Themes can be combined in a modular way, so it is easy to take an existing theme and adapt it.

Some themes, like `generic-templates`, provide a template framework that allow quick site prototyping.

An interesting aspect of themes, is that themes from the `styx-themes` package set can be used without exlicitely being downloaded.


## Clean separation of concerns

A styx site is managed in a single file, `site.nix`, where each section takes care of a special aspect of the site.

The "data" section is handling data creation and external file data fetching. This section will fetch posts in markdown format or prepare navigation menu.

The "pages" section is reponsible from turning data into pages by attaching templates and layout. Functions are available to generate complex like post archives or taxonomy pages.

The configuration is usually managed in an external `conf.nix`, where any of the used themes configuration interface can be used or custom configuration can be declared.


## Templating engine

Styx templates are written in the same language `site.nix` is written it, the nix expression language.  
A template is just a nix function returning text or an attribute set.

This make it very easy to include other template as it is just calling that template function:

```
''
  &lt;h1&gt;Foo&lt;/h1&gt;
  ${templates.bar}
''
```

Template functions can take arguments, so a list of post can be generated in the following fashion:

```
''
  &lt;h1&gt;Foo&lt;/h1&gt;
  ${mapTemplate templates.posts.list page.posts}
''
```

Every theme can provide templates functions, and a custom function library that can be used in templates.


## Configuration interface

Every theme can provide a configuration interface that can be customised in the site configuration.
A theme configuration can profide extra information  such as types and documentation.
This allows to type-check configuration and to generate documentation for themes.


## File support

Content written in markdown or asciidoc will automatically be processed.  
Complex data structures can be declared in `nix` files and imported in `site.nix`.


## Metadata

Custom metadata in nix format can be added to markup files. This allow to tag content or add any kind of information to a content.

```
{---
title = "Hello world!";
tags = [ "foo" "bar" ];
---}

Lorem ispum....
```


## Interactive debugging

`nix-repl` can be used to inspect interactively any variable of site.nix.  
Pages can be generated and the site can even be built from the repl.


## Deployment facilities

Styx has a `deploy` sub-command that can be used to easily deploy a site to GitHub pages.  
Any styx site can also be deployed with NixOps.


