---
title: "Themes"
tags: [ "themes" ]
level: [ "★★" ]
banner: "/post-banners/chalk.jpg"
---

This post introduces themes, a central concept in styx.

<!--more-->

Themes are more than just a way to customize a site looks.

A theme can provide:

- Template files
- Static files
- A configuration interface
- An example site
- A function library

A theme can be extended by another, and multiple themes can be combined together.


## Basics

Themes are declared in `site.nix`. Local themes are used by proving a path, but is possible to use remote themes, like themes of the `styx-themes` directly.

To use a theme, it is just required to add it to the `themes` list:

```nix
  themes = [
    styx-themes.generic-templates
    ./themes/my-theme
  ];
```

Themes at the beginning of the list have lower priority.
In this example, the `styx-themes.generic-templates` is combined with the `./themes/my-theme` theme.


## Example sites

Themes of the `styx-themes` package provide an example site that can be previewed locally by running a single command:

```sh
$ styx preview-theme showcase
```

The list of themes in the `styx-themes` set can be listed with the following command:

```sh
$ styx preview-theme
Please select a theme, available themes are:
- agency
- generic-templates
- ghostwriter
- hyde
- nix
- orbit
- showcase
```

## Configuration interface

A theme can provide many configuration options that can be used to customize it.
These configuration options can be used and changed in the site `conf.nix`. An interesting feature is that these options can be typed, and if they are styx will automatically do a type check when building a site.


## Documentation

Themes that are part of the `styx-themes` are documented in the styx documentation that can be launched with the following command:

```sh
$ styx doc
```

It is also possible to generate a documentation for the themes used in a site. In site root run the following command:

```sh
$ styx site-doc
```

